---
layout: post
title: Fall'21 - Computer Vision Assignment
date: 2021-11-08 11:12:00-0400
description: Assignment for computer vision course in fall'21
tags: Undergrad
categories: [Assignment]
---
#### Details

For this small homework, you will make a colorization model based on new/existing deep learning models, train the model using the provided train/validation dataset and test the model using test dataset. 

Specifically, you need to perform the following:
 - You need to train the model, save checkpoints and perform validation.
 - You need to implement a test dataloader based on the validation dataloader. 
 - You need to implement a 'test' method that will take a grayscale "L" image and "AB" color hints and produce a color image (same as validation method).
 - You need to test your trained model using the provided test images and save the images.
 - You need to write a short report on your methodology.
 - Make a zip file containing your codes and report in one folder and the result images in other folder.

*Refer to the previous lab sessions (ipynb files) for pointers/help with test function.*

#### Dataset
For this homework, a dataset will be provided containing training, validation and testing images. The training folder consists of $$7000$$ training images, the validation folder contains $$2000$$ validation images and the test folder contains $$1000$$ images. All images are randomly sampled from [Places365](http://places2.csail.mit.edu/download.html) dataset. Images are resized to $$256\times256$$. For training/validation/test, all images have to be resized to $$128\times128$$.

#### Training details
For the colorization task, the inputs will be an L image and corresponding color hint map.\textbf{ A sample dataloader for PyTorch is already provided in the ipynb files.} The dataloader handles both color space conversion and generation of hint images. In training time, the dataloader will produce L images from the ground truth images and also randomly sample color hints from the corresponding images. Note that the color hints will be generated by a random sampling in a ratio of $$1\% - 5\%$$.
#### Testing details
The test images contains both L image and AB color hints, concatenated and converted into a RGB image. You can use the dataloader to extract L and AB channels, same as training dataloader. Please refer to the provided dataloader for this. $1000$ test images will be provided to the students. All test images will be resized to $$256\times256$$. However, you have to resize it into $128\times128$ and all output images should have the same dimension ($$128\times128$$). 
#### Training Environment
All student are expected to use Google Colab for the training purpose. The deep learning framework should be PyTorch. Note that, **the maximum time for training in Colab is 12 hours**.